>> Jen Kramer: While we've got
this grid properties thing up.
Let's just take a quick pick at it,
because I wanna point out a few items on
here that I have not gone over in class.
But just to sort of
make you aware of them.
So, we'll start here at
the top of the page and
I'm gonna skip over a lot of this but
a few things to highlight.
So with the grid template rows and
the grid template columns,
those are two properties we
talked about quite a bit.
I wanted to point out just a few
things that maybe of use to you here.
So some people had mentioned
that they found that
the numbers were confusing when working
with grid columns and grid rows.
I had you work with all
numbers all morning long.
But there's other methodologies
that you can use here.
So in my examples here and this is in
the text file here on line 13 or line 14.
Two things I want to point out to you.
So, in line 13 with
the grid template columns,
this is a way that you can
name your lines, okay?
So here I've named a line column one.
Which is gonna be 40 pixels wide and
a name aligned column two
which is three fractions wide.
So two things to take away from that one,
this is how you indicate your names,
they're inside of square brackets
you can call them whatever you want.
And then the numbers that go next to
them will correspond to those widths.
The second thing that's incredibly cool
and I pointed this out a little bit
earlier as well,
is that the units can be widely different.
So in this case, we have 40 pixels and
three fractions.
So the way that this would work is that
the browser will set aside 40 pixels.
For that particular column and
then what ever is left over
divides into three fractions.
Depending on the screen width.
That is also a takeaway you can go with
for the rows, so, 50%, 25 VH auto.
So, again, wildly different units
you can mix and match in that way.
>> Jen Kramer: By the way,
you can use the repeat.
I showed you the repeat
syntax earlier today.
You can use that with the named grid lines
as well, but you want to be careful.
So here we have a repeat with a 2,
350 followed by a name.
And then a 10% outside of that.
So if you were to translate that,
that would go to 350 with
a name, 350 with the same name
because it's a repeat, right?
So you're naming it the same thing,
now you have two lines with
the same name followed by 10% which
didn't have any okay, so,
just some things to be aware of.
If you look at this and you say,
man, that looks really confusing,
stick with the numbers, I've already
showed you how to work with those.
So, this is just some alternative syntax
that you may encounter along the way
as you work with grid a little bit more.
Template areas is something
I'm gonna cover next, so
I'm just gonna skip right over that.
>> Jen Kramer: I'll point this out here.
So I'm done at line 51
in the text file and 55.
So line 55 I already
told you about grid-gap.
If you wanna call out grid-gap in
one direction only, lines 51 and
52 you can call out the grid-column-gap or
the grid-row-gap, okay.
So, just the same properties.
Grid gap winds up being the shorthand.
Skip over a whole bunch of stuff again.
Now, I'm in the children portion of this,
the grid items.
We're taking a look at
lines 83 through 86-ish.
So far, to this point today,
we used the grid hyphen columns,
or grid hyphen rows,
followed by two numbers.
If you want to break that
down because again that is
actually a short hand that
have touch you initially.
There are some additional properties that
would call only one of those numbers so
grid current start grid column end.
So if you had grid-column:
one slash three.
You could write that out as grid column
start one, grid column end three.
That’s totally legitimate too.
To me, I like the shorthand because
I think it’s pretty clear and
that’s a whole lot of extra typing.
Likewise, there’s a grid row start and
a grid row end.
So you can do those.
Now somebody earlier today from
the internet mentioned the span
keyword and so forth.
And I have an example of that here.
So if you take a look
at line number 90 here.
Here is a class that has
a grid-column-start and a grid-column-end.
So we're gonna start at one and
then we end, quote, span four.
So the keyword of span four.
So what would that
correspond to with numbers?
If I just said grid-column, what would be
the numbers that would come after that?
>> Jen Kramer: So these two lines here,
91 and 92, we have grid-column-start,
we have grid-column-end, if we were
to rewrite this as grid hyphen column
coolant what would be the two numbers that
would correspond to these two things?
>> Speaker 2: One slash five.
>> Jen Kramer: One slash five.
So this is a way of saying start at one,
span over the next four lines.
Make sense, okay.
You can also, if you have names for
your lines,
you can say span to that named line.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
you would've defined those names elsewhere
in the document, right?
So again, this is just to make you aware
of some alternative syntax that's out
there and available you may encounter.
You can choose to use it,
you don't have to use it.
I've taught you the number type of thing,
okay.
And then the rest of that I'm
gonna skip over at this point.
So this is the portion of
grid that we covered so far.
So it's about half of this document.
We're gonna cover most of
the rest of it at this point.